Now that we've gotten over
all the Docker stuff,
let's go ahead and chat about SQL.
So Mark, you had a question?
>> Yeah, since Postgres is such a stable,
long running software,
what kind of things would
change between versions?
I'm assuming SQL is not gonna
change the language, but
what types of features
would they be changing?
>> Cool, so yeah, like what's changing
from version to version on Postgres?
Super valid question.
So the first thing to know about SQL and
Postgres are kind of different things.
SQL is a standardized language that
exists across not just Postgres,
but it also applies to SQL Server,
Oracle Database, IBM DB2, MySQL, MariaDB.
There's a bunch of databases
that all use SQL and
there's one single standard language.
You can kind of think of
it like JavaScript, right?
JavaScript is a language but there's
different runtimes that run JavaScript.
There's Node.js,
there's the browser, there's Denno,
there's now Bun, there's Rhino,
there's JerryScript, right?
They're all using JavaScript,
which is the name of written language, but
something different is executing them.
It is the same thing with SQL and
Postgres.
The interesting thing about SQL,
and Postgres and
all these different permutations is
they all kinda have their own flavor.
Despite the fact that SQL
is a standardized language,
they all take their own
different approaches to it.
And they all add their own features to it.
So a great example of this is we're gonna
talk about down in quite a few lessons.
There's one here called JSONB.
This is not a part of the SQL spec.
This is a postgres-only thing.
So that's what changes between versions is
they're adding all these cool new features
that are specific to Postgres, and
they're making refinements, and
they're trying new things.
Once we get to JSONB, you're gonna see why
wasn't I teaching this the entire time,
kinda spoiler alerts right there.
But that was changing,
as they're adding new cool features and
they're still innovating
at a pretty rapid pace.
And particularly Postgres,
I feel like is leading the path,
which is why I chose to teach
this one over MySQL mostly.
So now's a good as time as
any to address the SQL,
S-Q-L elephant in the room,
what is the correct
pronunciation of S-Q-L?
Well, it depends on who you ask.
I did a decent amount of research on this
cuz I was positive that someone's gonna
ask me.
The correct pronunciation of
S-Q-L according to the body that
defines S-Q-L is S-Q-L,
they pronounce it S-Q-L.
However, the people that make SQL Server,
aka Microsoft, calls it SQL Server, right?
One of the most well known people that
works on defining what S-Q-L is and
writes all of these books about it,
she calls it SQL.
So in another words, S-Q-L is probably, by
the most definition of that, the defining
body calls it S-Q-L is probably the most
correct, but SQL is equally valid.
I call it S-Q-L because that's
just what I've always called it.
There are other people that
will always call it SQL, but
I think generally my rule of thumb
is if I'm talking about MySQL or
Postgres or one of those,
I generally say S-Q-L.
And if I'm talking specifically about
SQL Server and Microsoft Stack,
I will call it SQL because that's what
everyone in that community calls it.
Basically, Microsoft and
Oracle have codified SQL.
So if you're talking about Oracle as well,
they call it SQL in their docs.
Basically, everyone else that
I'm aware of calls it S-Q-L,
in terms of it's PostgreSQL,
MySQL, MariaDB calls it S-Q-L.
So they're both correct, someone will
get really opinionated about it and
you can just tell them
that you don't care,
because it does not matter, that we're
both talking about the same thing.
There's a really interesting
history about it, but
suffice to say that SQL
was invented in the 70s.
It was derivative from
a language called square.
They tried to cause actually literally
sequel, S-E-Q-U-E-L, that was some
acronym, that was the name of some
fighter jet or something like that.
So they couldn't call it that, so
they ended up calling it structured query
language, SQL, and we ended up with that.
A fun fact is that my dad, [LAUGH] he
actually used to work on SQL databases.
He worked on DB2,
which is the IBM flavor of it.
They still sell DB2 these days.
And then, he ended up being a technical
salesman for IBM for years and years.
This is actually stuff I ended up growing
up around, kind of unintentionally,
it's really funny to my dad that he
did all this stuff all these years and
now I'm teaching it to people.
So fun fact, hi dad,
he might be watching, I don't know.
Let's get into structured query language,
SQL.
And again, you can call it whatever
you want, I will never correct
you because I profoundly do not
care how [LAUGH] you pronounce it.
And it's one of those hills that people
choose to die on for no apparent reason.
So, we're gonna get started
on tables that inserts.
So if you're not already, please get
to running inside of your container.
You should see something here
like Postgres, like that.
If not, you can go back to the previous
lesson, it will show you how to do that.
And let's start running some commands.
So again, we are interacting
with the Postgres database
with a client called PSQL,
those are different things, right?
One is a database, one is a client
that is sending queries and
getting information back.
So I can be hosting one database and
everybody else could be querying
it with their own PSQL, right?
So you have one database but
you could have many clients to it.
This client has a bunch of
built-in kind of helpful commands,
and if you forget what they are,
you can hit \?.
And this will just pop up
a really helpful sort of help
information that I'll show
you a bunch of stuff.
I use it all the time cuz I can
never remember all of them.
But there's a bunch of stuff here.
You can run commands out here.
So if I do \!, that will allow
me to run a bash command and
the underlying bash,
sometimes that can be helpful.
You can cut and files and
things like that.
We're not gonna be using it today, but
there's a bunch of stuff
you can do with it.
And anything that you see prefixed with
a backslash, that's going to be a feature
specifically of PSQL and
not necessarily of Postgres to database.
The one that I find
myself using a lot is \l,
this will show me all of
the databases that exist.
And I'll use \d quite a bit.
We haven't created any tables yet,
so it will not find any,
but \d will show you all of the tables and
sequences and
constraints and stuff like that.
So that's a good place to
get started from there.
So we have a bunch of default databases,
you can see here I have Postgres,
I have template 0, and I have template 1.
So the first thing to say
is what is a database?
Are we connected to a database?
It's a bit of a conflated term.
In this particular context, when I say
we're connected to the Postgres database,
it means I have my Postgres
server running, and
there are multiple
databases inside of this.
You can think of a database in this
context, as a folder, all right?
It's a folder that contains many tables,
right?
Which you can kind of think
of like spreadsheets, right?
So Postgres here or template0,
template1 would be the name
of my folder that I'm in.
In a moment, we're going to create our
own database or create our own folder,
but a database contains many other
tables and things like that, okay?
As you can see here, your database
comes with three of them pre-created.
So the Postgres1 exists
solely as the purposes,
it's the default database that you connect
to if you don't give it anything that as
you're trying to connect
to a specific database.
It just exists for that purpose,
it's the default one.
You can technically delete it, there's
no reason that you can't delete it.
You also don't have, that's up to you.
So template1 and template0 exist for
the fact if you are creating and
deleting a bunch of database, if you
wanna have a templates to start from,
you would use template1, you'd make
a bunch of modifications to template1.
And that'll affect the default
database that you create.
If that gets all out of whack, what you'll
do is you'll then clone a new template1
from template0,
you should never modify template0.
And this is basically all stuff that
you can totally forget because I
never used them.
[LAUGH] This is why they're there.
This is why they exist.
But I never use the templates, I always
just create everything from scratch
because I don't find myself creating and
deleting a lot of databases, right?
I generally just create my database and
then just go from there, right?
So, but I want to know why they're there.
Okay, that being said,
we're going to run this command, right?
So I'm gonna say
CREATE DATABASE recipeguru.
So a couple of things to note here.
Now I can say \l.
And you can see here we have
our recipeguru Database.
So we've created our own
folder to work from.
The first part of this workshop,
we're going to be creating
a recipe website, okay?
Hence the name recipeguru.
Now, you might have seen there
that I said, in all caps here,
CREATE DATABASE like that.
Why did I do it that way,
why is it all caps?
Well, the reason why I do that is so that
you can see the commands that are coming
from SQL are always gonna be all
caps when I do them for you.
And everything that we do that's
optional user controlled information,
that's gonna be in lowercase here,
like recipeguru.
That's a very common pattern in SQL, but
there are also people that insist that you
should never do caps, and it's really done
and people are wasting their time and
Pinky strength by holding ships down for
so long.
And again, it doesn't matter.
I like it, whenever I'm writing code,
I tended to do everything in all caps.
So it's really easy for me to glance and
say, okay, CREATE DATABASE,
that's a command, recipeguru,
that's the name of the database, and
it's really easy to parse that visually.
But there's no requirement that
you have to do it that way.
I will find myself when I'm just writing
queries, just as like write queries,
I'll probably not do caps
just cuz I'm lazy, right?
So that is totally up to you.
And it's one of the things like SQL versus
sequel, it really just doesn't matter.
So it's never worth getting into
an argument with anyone over it.
So I'm just gonna throw
out here one more note,
that if you kill your container at this
point and you restart the container,
you will have to recreate
recipeguru again.
Because it's going to give you
another blank slate, right?
That's just another word of caution
that I'm putting out there.
I do provide here this complete SQL file.
You can actually download this, this will
actually be the complete recipeguru.
So this will give you actually the first
half of the workshop already done,
if you need that.
Or you can use the container
from Docker Hub, which is the,
This one here, the complete intro to SQL.
And that will also give you
the complete recipeguru database.
So a database is a collection
of similar tables.
For all of our recipe apps,
we'll be storing them in one database.
People ask me frequently when
do I use multiple databases,
when do I just shut
everything into one database?
That is a very you call to make.
In general, I'm tend to shove a lot of
things into the same database because I
don't really see the use and
trying to make them work across databases.
In particular, if anything would ever have
to be like related to something else,
like I have my ingredients,
I have my recipes as those obviously have
to be connected to each other, right?
It does have to be in the same database,
no matter what.
But let's say I have like,
user session information, and
I have recipes and ingredients.
In theory, those could live in different
databases because I would never have to
collate those two together, right?
So it's an highly opinionated thing,
right?
It's kinda like asking the question,
should I have two services or
should I have one monolithic service,
right?
Should I have microservices or
macroservices?
That depends on what you're doing.
For your purposes, getting started,
just throw everything in a database, and
in general, you'd be fine.
The question you can
kinda ask yourself is,
would I ever have to scale
these things independently?
Which is where it can be useful
if we split across databases.
So you can see here,
I created the recipeguru database, but
I'm still connected to
the Postgres database.
So I wanna switch my connections.
So I'm gonna hit \c recipe, and
then this actually does
have tab completion.
So I can hit \c recipeguru.
And now you can see here, I'm connected
to the recipeguru database, which again,
has nothing in it.
If you put \d,
you will not find any relations yet.
But we're gonna go on to the next lesson,
we'll actually create some tables.